from the moment the aid trucks appeared
the tank and drone began to fire at the
people gathered the people who went to
get food for themselves and their
children they started shooting at them
there were many dead and
injured I went to get a sack of flour
for my parents we are very hungry we
don't have food or anything they fired
shells at us they attacked us they shot
at us there is no food there is nothing
we want flower to eat they shot the
little ones they humiliated
us and in Gaza City at least five
Palestinians have been killed in an air
strike in the aun neighborhood repeated
attacks have caused widespread
destruction across the area Al jaz's
isul
reports I'm standing in the middle of
alun neighborhood it was one of the most
densely populated areas in Gaza City it
was invaded by the Israeli forces on two
occasions during this war before the
land offensive the area was carpet
bombed for days killing and injuring
hundreds today dozens of dead bodies
remain buried under these ruins and
dozens more are still lying on roads
there's massive destruction large scale
Devastation as the pictures show houses
leveled buildings burnt down and
infrastructure
destroyed destruction on a massive scale
Beyond any description our homes were
destroyed this is all that is left of my
property
this the last time I called my family
was 5 days ago they told me the
situation was dangerous I asked them to
leave they told me snipers and drones
were all around and they couldn't leave
I do not know where they are killed or
buried underneath debris I appeel to the
Red Cross the whole world to help us
remove this Rubble to find where our
families are
Columns of smoke are still seen rising
from buildings which were set on fire by
the Israeli forces they've destroyed
every aspect of life in the Gaza Strip
even depriving people of the possibility
of returning to their
homes my family and I were at the home
and all of a sudden we were showered
with missiles and shelling it went dark
and we were deafened we kept calling out
to one another our neighbors too started
shouting
three of their sons were killed and one
of them had his head blown off his
body these are some of the dead bodies
recently recovered from under the ruins
in the neighborhood most of them are
women and children killed inside their
homes as the Israeli missiles and shells
fell on their heads residents and
civilian defense teams hand in hand are
hoping to find any survivors under this
multistory
building we are doing our best to
recover dead bodies and hoping we can
find any survivors we found some trapped
underneath Rubble they'd been there for
10 days without food or water by the
grace of God they're still alive there's
large scale Devastation carpet bombing
followed by a land Invasion there has
been the intentional destruction of
homes infrastructure and every aspect of
life in the Gaza
[Music]
Strip the US has announced it plans to
begin airdropping humanitarian Aid into
Gaza president Biden also says he will
insist that Israel allows more Aid
trucks into the strip Mike Hanah reports
from the White
House at his meeting with the Italian
Prime Minister President Biden announced
that the US was going to begin Aid drops
into Gaza this in conjunction with the
Jordanian Air Force these are likely to
be M meals ready to eat of the Halal
variety uh he also said as well that he
is insisting that Israel facilitate more
roots and facilitate more trucks this is
what he had to say in addition to
expanding deliveries by land as I said
we're going to we're going to insist
that Israel facilitate more trucks and
more routes to get more and more people
the the help they need no excuses
because the truth is Aid flowing to Gaza
is nowhere nearly enough now it's
nowhere nearly enough innocent lives are
on the line and children's lives are on
the line and we won't stand by and let
until they until we get more Aid in
there we should be getting hundreds of
trucks in not just several for the first
time President Biden also raised the
possibility of opening up a marine
Corridor to get Aid into Gaza on the
question of the ceasefire well he's
continued to walk that one back he said
a few days ago that he expects a
ceasefire to be in place on Monday next
week this would allow the release of
captives in Gaza and the release of of
Palestinian prisoners however he said in
the past 24 hours that might have been a
bit too optimistic uh that time frame
now appearing to expand but he says the
US is continuing to work towards such a
ceasefire also working towards one that
is more longstanding a matter of weeks
rather than days and then another
element introduced creating a dynamic
which would allow for more lasting
negotiations about a long-term agreement
bye Cana I'll just here
Washington Dave Harden is the managing
director of The Georgetown strategy
group a Washington DC based consulting
firm he previously served as USA Mission
director to the West Bank and Gaza he
joins us live from Washington DC Dave un
officials have warned that at least one
quarter of the population in Gaza that's
around 576,000 people that they're one
step away from famine unless urgent
action is taken so how effective are
airdrops as a means to get much needed
Aid to a popul population that is
suffering through this humanitarian
catastrophe I think Aid drops are an
inefficient
inexpensive and not particularly
effective way of meeting that
overwhelming need that you just
described I mean each airdrop is going
to have about two truckloads worth of of
goods of assistance and I guess it's
going to be a high altitude air drop so
that the US Air Force and the crew
aren't in harms well and so they're
going to drop you know some cargo from
30,000 ft or something like that into
into Gaza and really what needs to
happen is just more Crossings and more
trucks need to come through every single
day Dave President Biden said that the
US would insist that Israel facilitate
more trucks and routs to get more people
the help that they need he also said the
aid that's flowing into Gaza is nowhere
near enough but the US continues to
press is Israel to allow more Aid in
they've done this for a while now and at
the same time Israel continues to get
weapons from the US so as long as that
continues does Israel actually feel it
has to comply with us requests to allow
in more
Aid I think the United States looks weak
uh and it's it's frankly very
disappointing to me I feel like the aid
drops are symbolic um and designed in a
way to appease maybe the domestic base
um the United States has the leverage to
have the Israelis open open up Aras and
former Crossings like uh Carney and Nal
and sufa expand K Shalom and expand uh
Rafa and the saladine gate which is what
Hamas used to use with Israeli uh
permission years ago so the fact of the
matter is the United States has the
ability to to compel Israel to open up
more Aid uh into this very small
Enclave um and by not compelling the
Israelis to do this we are putting our
assets and our people at risk and by the
way we're we're also potentially
creating more harm and more chaos in
Gaza assuming that these are high
altitude air drops Okay so we've talked
about the fact that the US is saying
they're going to start airdropping Aid
into Gaza Biden also has said for the
first time that the US was also looking
at the possibility of a marine corridor
to deliver large amounts of Aid into
Gaza how feasible is that and how much
help might that provide in the long
run I mean again really the the answer
has got to be opening up the existing or
The shuttered Crossings the along the
Israeli Gaza border I mean the Israelis
control that space and they can open it
up a marine channel in is better than an
airdrop but there's still an enormous
amount of force protection that would
have to be behind um that ship and that
protection and then you would have to
control the beach head to make sure that
it's not chaotic and that there's not
violence um and stampedes and
Desperation for people and so simply
getting more food in from multiple
channels is the answer to deconflict
this all these other ideas Marine you
know Marine Landing or high altitude air
drops this is not in any way getting to
the CR of the matter all right Dave
Harden managing director of The
Georgetown strategy group great to get
your perspective thanks so much for
joining us in Al
jaer thank you thank you